#### 9.3.1.1. User Notification Handler Module|用户通知处理程序模块

The user notification handler module is used to send emails token owners or administrators in case of any event.

##### 9.3.1.1.1. Possible Actions

###### 9.3.1.1.1.1. sendmail

The sendmail action sends an email to the tokenowner user. The email is sent, if an administrator managed the users token.

**emailconfig**

* required Option
* The email is sent via this SMTP server configuration.

**subject**

* optional

The subject line of the mail that is sent.

###### 9.3.1.1.1.2. sendsms

The sendsms action sends an SMS to the tokenowner. The SMS is sent, if an administrator managed the users token.

**smsconfig**

* required Option
* The SMS Gateway configuration.

##### 9.3.1.1.2. Options for both actions

Both actions **sendmail** and **sendsms** take several common options.

**body**

* optional

Here the administartor can specify the body of the email, that is sent. The body may contain the following tags

* {admin} name of the logged in user.
* {realm} realm of the logged in user.
* {action} the action that the logged in user performed.
* {serial} the serial number of the token.
* {url} the URL of the privacyIDEA system.
* {user} the given name of the token owner.
* {givenname} the given name of the token owner.
* {surname} the surname of the token owner.
* {username} the loginname of the token owner.
* {userrealm} the realm of the token owner.
* {tokentyp} the type of the token.
* {registrationcode} the registration code in the detail response.
* {recipient_givenname} the given name of the recipient.
* {recipient_surname} the surname of the recipient.

**To**

* required

This specifies to which type of user the notification should be sent. Possible recipient types are:

* token owner,
* logged in user,
* admin realm,
* internal admin,
* email address.

Depending on the recipient type you can enter additional information. The recipient type email takes a comma separated list of email addresses.

##### 9.3.1.1.3. Code

This is the event handler module for user notifications. It can be bound to each event and can perform the action:

* sendmail: Send an email to the user/token owner
* sendsms: We can also notify the user with an SMS.

The module is tested in tests/test_lib_events.py

class privacyidea.lib.eventhandler.usernotification.**NOTIFY_TYPE**[source]

Allowed token owner

**ADMIN_REALM** = 'admin realm'

**EMAIL** = 'email'

**INTERNAL_ADMIN** = 'internal admin'

**LOGGED_IN_USER** = 'logged_in_user'

**TOKENOWNER** = 'tokenowner'

class privacyidea.lib.eventhandler.usernotification.UserNotificationEventHandler[source]

An Eventhandler needs to return a list of actions, which it can handle.

It also returns a list of allowed action and conditions

It returns an identifier, which can be used in the eventhandlig definitions

**actions**

This method returns a dictionary of allowed actions and possible options in this handler module.

Returns:	dict with actions

**check_condition**(options)[source]

Check if all conditions are met and if the action should be executed. The the conditions are met, we return “True” :return: True

**conditions**

The UserNotification can filter for conditions like * type of logged in user and * successful or failed value.success

allowed types are str, multi, text, regexp

Returns:	dict

description = 'This eventhandler notifies the user about actions on his tokens'

**do**(action, options=None)[source]

This method executes the defined action in the given event.

Parameters:

* **action** –
* **options** (dict) – Contains the flask parameters g, request,response and the handler_def configuration

Returns:

identifier = 'UserNotification'