## 2.2. Ubuntu Packages|Ubuntu包

There are ready made packages for Ubuntu 14.04 LTS and 16.04 LTS <span id="id1">[[4]](#ubuntu1604)</span>. These are available in a public ppa repository <span id="id2">[[1]](#ppa)</span>, so that the installation will automatically resolve all dependencies. Install it like this:

```
add-apt-repository ppa:privacyidea/privacyidea
apt-get update
apt-get install python-privacyidea privacyideaadm
```

Optionally you can also install necessary configuration files to run privacyIDEA within the Nginx Webserver:

```
apt-get install privacyidea-nginx
```

Alternatively you can install privacyIDEA running in an Apache webserver:

```
apt-get install privacyidea-apache2
```

After installing in Nginx or Apache2 you only need to create your first administrator and you are done:

```
pi-manage admin add admin admin@localhost
```

Now you may proceed to First Steps.

> Note:
> 
> The packages privacyidea-apache2 and privacyidea-nginx assume that you want to run a privacyIDEA system. These packages deactivate all other (default) websites. You can install the package privacyidea-mysql to install the privacyIDEA application and setup the database. After this, you need to configure the webserver on your own.
> 
> Note:
> 
> To get the latest development snapshots, you can use the repository ppa:privacyidea/privacyidea-dev. But these packages might be broken sometimes!

### 2.2.1. FreeRADIUS

privacyIDEA has a perl module to “translate” RADIUS requests to the API of the privacyIDEA server. This module plugs into FreeRADIUS. The FreeRADIUS does not have to run on the same machine like privacyIDEA. To install this module run:

```
apt-get install privacyidea-radius
```

For further details see FreeRADIUS Plugin.

###　2.2.2. SimpleSAMLphp

Starting with 1.4 privacyIDEA also supports SAML via a plugin for simpleSAMLphp <span id="id3">[[2]](#simplesaml)</span>. The simpleSAMLphp service does not need to run on the same machine like the privacyIDEA server.

To install it on a Ubuntu 14.04 system please run:

```
apt-get install privacyidea-simplesamlphp
```

For further details see simpleSAMLphp Plugin.

###　2.2.3. PAM

privacyIDEA also comes with a PAM library to add two factor authentication to any Linux system. You can run one central privacyIDEA server and configure all other systems using the PAM library to authenticate against this privacyIDEA.

To install it on a Ubuntu 14.04 system please run:

```
apt-get install privacyidea-pam
```

For further details see Pluggable Authentication Module.

###　2.2.4. OTRS

OTRS is an important Open Source Ticket Request System. It is written in Perl and privacyIDEA provides an authentication plugin to authenticate at OTRS with two factors.

To install it on Ubuntu 14.04 please run:

```
apt-get install privacyidea-otrs
```

For further details and configuration see OTRS.

**Footnotes**

> [[1]](#id2): https://launchpad.net/~privacyidea<span id="ppa"><span>
> 
> [[2]](#id3):	<dir id="simplesaml">https://github.com/privacyidea/privacyidea/tree/master/authmodules/simpleSAMLphp</dir>
> 
> [3]: http://www.otrs.com/
> 
> [[4]](#id1) <dir id="ubuntu1604">Starting with privacyIDEA 2.15 Ubuntu 16.04 packages are provided</dir>
