#### 14.1.1.5. Resolver endpoints

The code of this module is tested in tests/test_api_system.py

**POST /resolver/test**

Return:

* a json result with True, if the given values can create a working resolver and a description.

**GET /resolver/**

returns a json list of all resolver.

Parameters:

* type (basestring) – Only return resolvers of type (like passwdresolver..)
* editable (basestring) – Set to “1” if only editable resolvers should be returned.

**POST /resolver/(resolver)**

This creates a new resolver or updates an existing one. A resolver is uniquely identified by its name.

If you update a resolver, you do not need to provide all parameters. Parameters you do not provide are left untouched. When updating a resolver you must not change the type! You do not need to specify the type, but if you specify a wrong type, it will produce an error.

Parameters:

* resolver (basestring) – the name of the resolver.
* type – the type of the resolver. Valid types are passwdresolver,

ldapresolver, sqlresolver, scimresolver :type type: string :return: a json result with the value being the database id (>0)

Additional parameters depend on the resolver type.

LDAP:

* LDAPURI
* LDAPBASE
* BINDDN
* BINDPW
* TIMEOUT
* SIZELIMIT
* LOGINNAMEATTRIBUTE
* LDAPSEARCHFILTER
* LDAPFILTER
* USERINFO
* NOREFERRALS - True|False
* EDITABLE - True|False

SQL:

* Database
* Driver
* Server
* Port
* User
* Password
* Table
* Map

Passwd

* Filename

**DELETE /resolver/(resolver)**

This function deletes an existing resolver. A resolver can not be deleted, if it is contained in a realm

Parameters:

* resolver – the name of the resolver to delete.

Return:

* json with success or fail

**GET /resolver/(resolver)**

This function retrieves the definition of a single resolver.

Parameters:

* resolver – the name of the resolver

Return:

* a json result with the configuration of a specified resolver