15.5. What are possible migration strategies?
You are already running an OTP system like RSA SecurID, SafeNet or Vasco (alphabetical order) but you would like to migrate to privacyIDEA.

There are different migration strategies using the RADIUS token or the RADIUS passthru policy.

15.5.1. RADIUS token migration strategy
Configure your application like your VPN to authenticate against the privacyIDEA RADIUS server and not against the old deprecated RADIUS server.

Now, you can enroll a RADIUS token for each user, who is supposed to login to this application. Configure the RADIUS token for each user so that the RADIUS request is forwarded to the old RADIUS server.

Now you can start to enroll tokens for the users within privacyIDEA. After enrolling a new token in privacyIDEA you can delete the RADIUS token for this user.

When all RADIUS tokens are deleted, you can switch off the old RADIUS server.

For strategies on enrolling token see What are possible rollout strategies?.

15.5.2. RADIUS PASSTHRU policy migration strategy
Configure your application like your VPN to authenticate against the privacyIDEA RADIUS server and not against the old deprecated RADIUS server.

Starting with privacyIDEA 2.11 the passthru policy was enhanced. You can define a system wide RADIUS server. Then you can create a authentication policy with the passthru action pointing to this RADIUS server. This means that - as long as a user trying to authenticate - has not token assigned, all authentication request with this very username and the password are forwarded to this RADIUS server.

As soon as you enroll a new token for this user in privacyIDEA the user will authenticate with this very token within privacyIDEA an his authentication request will not be forwarded anymore.

As soon as all users have a new token within privacyIDEA, you can switch of the old RADIUS server.

For strategies on enrolling token see What are possible rollout strategies?