## 15.7. How can I setup HA (High Availability) with privacyIDEA?|privacyIDEA如何设置HA（高可用性）？

privacyIDEA does not track any state internally. All information is kept in the database. Thus you can configure several privacyIDEA instances against one DBMS [1] and have the DBMS do the high availability.

Note:

The passwords and OTP key material in the database is encrypted using the encKey. Thus it is possible to put the database onto a DBMS that is controlled by another database administrator in another department.

### 15.7.1. HA setups

When running HA you need to assure to configure the pi.cfg file on all privacyIDEA instances accordingly. You might need to adapt the SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI accordingly.

Be sure to set the same SECRET_KEY and PI_PEPPER on all instances.

Then you need to provide the same encryption key (file encKey) and the same audit signing keys on all instances.

#### 15.7.1.1. Using one central DBMS

../_images/ha-one-dbms.png
If you already have a high available, redundant DBMS - like MariaDB Galera Cluster - which might even be addressable via one cluster IP address the configuration is fairly simple. In such a case you can configure the same SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI on all instances.

#### 15.7.1.2. Using MySQL master-master-replication

../_images/ha-master-master.png
If you have no DBMS or might want to use a dedicated database server for privacyIDEA, you can setup one MySQL server per privacyIDEA instance and configure the MySQL servers to run in a master-master-replication.

Note:

The master-master-replication only works with two MySQL
servers.

There are some good howtos out there like [2].

Footnotes

[1]	Database management system
[2]	https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-mysql-master-master-replication.